records obtained by the Justice Department
work and personal phone numbers of individual reporters, for general AP office numbers in New York, Washington and Hartford, Conn., and for the main number for the AP in the House of Representatives press gallery
included incoming calls or the duration of the calls?
not clear
In all, the government seized the records for more than
20 separate telephone lines assigned to AP and its journalists in April and May of 2012
more than [] journalists work in the offices where phone records were targeted
100
AP President and Chief Executive Officer
Gary Pruitt
He demanded
the return of the phone records and destruction of all copies.
why it sought the records
The government would not say
Officials have previously said in public testimony that the U.S. attorney in Washington is conducting a criminal investigation into
who may have provided information contained in a May 7, 2012, AP story about a foiled terror plot
The story disclosed details of a CIA operation in 
Yemen that stopped an al-Qaida plot in the spring of 2012 to detonate a bomb on an airplane bound for the United States.
In testimony in February, CIA Director John Brennan noted
the FBI had questioned him about whether he was AP's source, which he denied.
letter notifying the AP, which was received
Friday, May 10
the Justice Department offered no explanation for the seizure, according to 
Pruitt's letter and attorneys for the AP
The records were presumably obtained 
from phone companies earlier this year
None of the information provided by the government to the AP suggested
the actual phone conversations were monitored.
Among those whose phone numbers were obtained were 
five reporters and an editor who were involved in the May 7, 2012, story.
The Obama administration has aggressively investigated disclosures of classified information to the media and has brought
six cases against people suspected of providing classified information, more than under all previous presidents combined.
The White House on Monday said 
that other than press reports it had no knowledge of Justice Department attempts to seek AP phone records.
We are not involved in decisions
made in connection with criminal investigations, as those matters are handled independently by the Justice Department,
concerned parties
Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., chairman of the investigative House Oversight and Government Reform Committee; Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, 
Rules published by the Justice Department require
that subpoenas of records of news organizations must be personally approved by the attorney general, but it was not known if that happened in this case. 
The letter notifying AP that its phone records had been obtained through subpoenas was sent Friday by
Ronald Machen, the U.S. attorney in Washington.
 In this case, however, the government, in its letter to the AP, cited an exemption to those rules that holds that prior notification can be waived if such notice
might "pose a substantial threat to the integrity of the investigation."
It is unknown whether
a judge or a grand jury signed off on the subpoenas.
The AP delayed reporting the story at the request of government officials who said
it would jeopardize national security
Once officials said those concerns were allayed, 
the AP disclosed the plot, though the Obama administration continued to request that the story be held until the administration could make an official announcement.
The May 7 story was written by 
reporters Matt Apuzzo and Adam Goldman with contributions from reporters Kimberly Dozier, Eileen Sullivan and Alan Fram. They and their editor, Ted Bridis,
Brennan talked about the AP story and investigation in written testimony to the Senate. "The irresponsible and damaging leak of classified information was made ..
when someone informed The Associated Press that the U.S. government had intercepted an IED (improvised explosive device) that was supposed to be used in an attack and that the U.S. government currently had that IED in its possession and was analyzing it
